# youtube-video-dmca-checker-website
<b>Try it out free here!</b>
http://dmcachecker.com

(Make sure that your browser doesn't try to upgrade the connection to https, because the site isn't SSL-certified. Try typing in www.dmcachecker.com to be safe :))

If that link doesn't work, try this one: https://dmca-checker.herokuapp.com/

<b>Tutorial Video</b>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bft5_6iiFig

A free-to-use website that checks if a given video is marked by YouTube as containing claimed music, which could lead to a DMCA takedown if played during a livestream on a platform like Twitch.
 
<b>The Main Method the Site Uses To Confirm/Deny DMCA Music</b>
 
Assumes that the presence of the "Music in this video:" header means that YouTube has identified claimed music (I think this is a fair assumption).

Therefore, the lack of the "Music in this video:" header could mean that YouTube views the video as free of music that could lead to DMCA. (Not as certain. Pretty certain, but not entirely).

If the video in question is from a channel that was auto-generated by YouTube for a musician, then the description of that video will not have the "Music in this video:" header.
However, it WILL have both "Provided to YouTube by " and "Auto-generated by YouTube" in the descriptions of the video, so the program additionally checks that those strings are not present on the page before stating that the video does not contain any music that would make a streamer the target of a DMCA takedown.

So, the website checks the YouTube page for that header, and if it is present, then it tells the user the video has DMCA music. If no header is found, then it checks for the signs of an auto-generated music channel, and if those signs aren't found, then the site tells the user the video is safe.

<b>Other Information</b>
 
Uses NodeJS. Whenever a YouTube URL is searched by the user, the website creates a HTTP request to read the source-view of the YouTube page with that URL. It scans the page for the needed data to perform the DMCA checks.

